in this lesson we're going to look at
the functionality and usage of microsoft
sentinel now this was formerly known as
azure sentinel but like many other
things it's been rebranded
so we have this idea of microsoft
sentinel
and it actually has a number of
different pieces of functionality
first and foremost we think of this as a
sim
so a sim system is this security
information and event management
its goal is to help investigate when
there is some kind of security incident
happening on your environment
it's there to help find various threats
or exposures that might be happening
but it's also
a saw
so if a sim is about detecting
and looking into the problem
a saw is a security orchestration
automation response tool i.e
hey look something's happening i've
detected something
i actually want to be able to then do
something so i want to have this ability
to automatically respond to it
and so microsoft central does both of
these it has its own concept of native
playbooks it hooks into things like
logic apps as well so we can automate
various responses when i have some
instant happening
the way microsoft sentinel actually
works is we talked before about an azure
monitor log analytics workspace
and it's leveraging that so microsoft
sentinel is sitting on top
of
a log
analytics
workspace
and if you think about what do i need to
be able to detect if there's something
happening if there's some exposure i
need lots and lots of information and so
the reason it sits on top of a log
analytics workspace is i have all of
these various signals coming in
i can think about well
okay i have security logs
i also have the idea that hey there's
various signals
and we're going to get those to come in
and be stored in our log analytics
workspace now one of the key things is
those are the types of things we're
gathering but we want to gather them
from as many different things as
possible so yes absolutely i can gather
these from azure resources
but i can gather it from things on
premises
i can think about things other clouds
i think about network equipment
and my networking configurations
i think about my identity
for example azure ad i think about other
cloud sas applications
i want to get information from as many
different things as possible the more
security locks the more signals i get
the better now some of these connectors
are just part of log analytics workspace
but some of them actually are sentinel
specific so azure sentinel yes it sits
on top of a log analytics workspace
but it also adds a number of different
connectors that are unique to azure
sentinel to help get me that information
in
if we jump over and look at an azure
sentinel instance
we can actually see i have this idea of
data connectors
that i've got down here as part of my
configuration
and we can see there's just a huge
number these are no is amazon web
services
apache servers azure active directory
azure ddos aks barracuda networking
appliances checkpoint cisco devices
f5 devices google
workspaces
microsoft 365 defender
so a huge number of different types of
connector to connect to all these
different types of solutions
and what will happen is when you start
to add these things
it's telling me the various data types
that's going to get added
and it will tell me hey the types of
things that then will get enabled so
there are some new workbooks there are
some new queries so it starts to enhance
the functionality that i actually have
in my environment it's super basic you
can see here hey i just have three
connected out of all of those possible
ones that actually exist
but you can go through and add the
connectors that make the most sense for
you
and the key point here is so connectors
get us the data
well i could probably get the data for
large part on my own but a huge volume
of data on its own is useless
it's that ability to actually correlate
all those different logs and signals
together
and understand what is meaningful what
do i actually care about what indicates
some kind of incident or attack
and that's what microsoft sentinel does
it looks at all of these signals and
security logs but it basically adds
intelligence
so it uses things like machine learning
it's adding things like microsoft cyber
security teams to understand that so we
can actually give you meaningful insight
into exactly what's happening in my
environment
and what we'll see
is well
straight away it opens up things like i
have an overview so i can quickly see
nice visually events and alerts that are
happening in my environment heartbeats
configuration updates i have no alerts
so that's a nice thing i could see
incidents i could see potential
malicious events and where they're
coming from around the world
i could directly access the log
analytics workspace and run queries
but i can dive into incidents so if
there's actually an incident it will
then guide me okay what do i need to do
how do i start working through this
there are workbooks
that help me actually go through
and start focusing around well what
should i do around this particular
instant i want to work through it i can
go and look for signs of some attack
so hunting
is essentially a query
so rare audit activity
and it's notice here it's showing me the
actual query that it's going to run
against that log analytics workspace
there's an indication of some rare audit
activity initiated by the user so
hunting is where i want to go and look
for something
you'll hear there's been various
vulnerabilities exposed and what happens
a lot of the times is there'll be some
query i can run on azure sentinel to
help find a sign that that's happening
to my environment
there are things like notebooks which is
built on jupyter notebooks which gives
me the ability to have some common
response and pattern to actually look
for things and then investigate what's
happening
there's capabilities like entity
behavior which is actually now looking
at profiles of users of hosts and other
things on what's common and then what
are we seeing outside of that
it has its own threat intelligence
capabilities but also you can add in
other
sets of thread intelligence coming from
other sources maybe it's sets of
malicious ip addresses there's other
things i could add that was domain names
files ipv4 addresses etc so some
indicator of some negative thing but
then for all of these
i can then add things like automation so
there are built-in automation rules that
i don't have to really do anything i can
just go ahead and create an automation
rule
and it sets me for this nice guided
experience or
i can create a playbook which then calls
something like an azure logic app that
serverless technology
so i really think about azure sentinel
is there as that sim solution i'm going
to get all of the different security
logs and signals coming in from all of
my systems the more the better
and then once it's gathered that it has
the intelligence it knows the queries
that matter it knows the combinations of
signals and logs that might mean
something it has machine learning it has
microsoft cyber security teams building
an intelligence to this to actually then
give me those abilities to hey sure it
might alert on things hey there's a
problem
it's going to generate those incidents
and it lets me actually go and
investigate
i can go and do hunting to go and find
the problems
but also through that saw it can then go
and automate responses hey i'm seeing
some attack coming from this ip address
hey i might have an automated response
to go and block that ip address
hey i'm seeing a certain account doing
something suspicious hey go to azure id
and disable that account
so azure sentinel is lighting up all
those various things so i get the
signals in
and then it's adding that ability to
understand what it means and react